This experience occurred not too long ago, still fresh in my mind. But before I begin the story, I would like to give a little background about myself. I have been fascinated with the paranormal since my first experience in an old apartment at a very young age. Throughout the years of being somewhat sensitive to them, I have encountered shadow people, full-bodied apparitions, translucent figures, creepy grudge like things, etc throughout my life. I am not a fully devoted Buddhist but I do follow their teachings to an extent. Also, I no longer live in Thailand but am back in the states.

My family are no skeptics to the paranormal either, each and every one of them have had their own tales and encounters but mostly kept to themselves about it. They will share when asked but if no inquiries are made, they will go on about their life. Their experiences I would write at another time while I try to accurately write their stories in a clear, chronological manner (some stories are just all over the place and requires me contacting them).

Since you know a little more about me now, I will give a short background about why I was in Thailand. In April 2012, I applied to various teaching positions at private schools. My current job did not pay much and I wanted to use the teaching experience to add to my resume for future professional goals. The search for a job did not take long and I landed a job at a well-established school which I enjoyed greatly while there.

After my confirmation for the job and the green light during the hiring phase, I bought my flight tickets and began my journey to the Land of Smiles in late April. I arrived and was picked up by the person who interviewed me via Skype and made our way into the capital of the province, a 40 minute drive through the country side. I was excited, curious and tired during the drive. Once I got to my house, I was in awe. It was completely different from what I was accustomed to back in the states but I adapted rather quickly. As I unpacked into my room, I met my roommates, two middle-aged women from South Africa. Let's call them Sherry and Felicia; Sherry was the older of the two. They greeted me and went about their day, as they had already planned to do so.

At this moment, it gave me the opportunity to get a feel of the house. The house was three stories and contained two bathrooms and three bedrooms. One of the bathrooms is situated on the first floor and the other next to my room. My bedroom was directly across from Sherry's and Felicia was alone in the third floor. The stairway had very little lighting and was always emitting a dark, uneasy feeling. It could be because of the lighting in that area was horribly dim, setting its own mood. Either way, it was never a pleasant experience to go up and down the stairs.

The way my room was laid out was rather awkward. Upon standing in the doorway into the room, there is another door straight ahead that exits to the balcony that looks over a parking lot of a nearby restaurant. Directly to the right of the door (still facing the other door) is a small desk and dresser. And across from the dresser is my bed. And in the path of the room door to the balcony door is a make-up mirror stand that faced directly straight to my bed thus being able to see myself when I sat up.

It would take about two weeks before I had my first experience. I can recall that morning getting ready for our teacher orientation and training. The only shoes I left out were my running shoes and the ones I wore around the city. In my luggage, I left my water shoes in there due to not having the time to use them. As I finished the day's monotonous agenda, I went home and to my surprise, I saw my water shoes out next to my other shoes. At first I responded with an hmmm, I wonder if someone came in and took my shoes out (this was my reaction) as a prank, a dumb one at that. Since my roommates and I were all out of the house and no one else had access to it, I just assumed it must have been me who did it, but I brushed it off anyways.

The following nights I had terrible experiences of trying to sleep. It was a mix of the firmness of my bed, soi (street) dogs barking late at night and being away from family back in the states. And to my surprise, when I spoke to my roommates about these problems with sleep they all felt the same. During that time, we believed it was due to the assimilation into a foreign environment, which was true for the most part.

In the daytime, the room was bearable; it made me feel safe but as evening approached the atmosphere in my room and the house, shifted into a more ominous one. At this time of the day, I no longer felt alone wherever I walked in the house. There was this constant feeling of being watched and followed by a male presence. I believed it to be male at the time because it was very heavy feeling and nothing that I would associate with a female's. I kept this to myself for about a week before I asked Sherry about it. She too admitted that the house felt rather strange at night but chose to ignore it. Felicia felt the same way too but gave her own theories about why we were feeling the way we did. She believed it had to do with our inner stress and what not. I responded it was possible but my experiences up to that point made me think otherwise.

The next two weeks were hellish to my mind and body. I would go to sleep around 12am and constantly wake up every hour for three hours, finally sleeping around 4am. It was very annoying because I had to get up early for work. I was becoming very irritated with everything around me and tried my best to keep a calm composure. Then one day, I brought up the idea of doing a food offering to the spirit of the house because we had a Chinese altar on the first floor. We all affirmed.

The ritual was pretty simple in nature and required some food or snacks to be offered, a cup of water and incense to symbolize the transformation of the food from physical form to spiritual. The offering consisted of two store bought sandwich snacks and water in a glass cup. During the ritual Sherry and Felicia sat behind me while I led the ritual of asking the spirit to welcome and protect us and that we do not mean to disturb it (I do not know if I did the ritual correctly, just thought the idea of a food offering would appease the spirit of the house because I had seen my parents do it before). I lit three Asian incenses, putting them in between my palms (like a wai) and spoke in my head and out loud, bowing three times in between. After the last bow, I stuck the incenses into a cup filled with rice allowing it to stand upright (this cup was already present before we all arrived).

Once the short ritual was completed, we all felt the atmosphere change. It felt lighter. Even the dark areas of the house felt lighter as if the house finally allowed us to stay and call it home. Nothing out of the ordinary occurred during this grace period until Felicia decided to move for personal reasons (had nothing to do with the house). We bid her farewell and she left about three weeks after the ritual. Looking back at this moment, Sherry and I made a key mistake of not doing another ritual to allow Felicia to leave because after she had left, it all started again but the feelings were stronger than the previous and sightings began to occur.

The day Felicia left was pretty quiet. The reason being is that Sherry and I worked in the day; Sherry worked from 7:30am - 4:30pm respectively and I worked from 10am - 7:00pm. Regardless of my start time, I got up early anyways because I hated rushing to work. We knew of the day she left but when she physically left the house, we were already at work. We went about our business as usual and chit chat like we always did when I got off of work.

Sherry was a mother figure to me because she was about the age of my mom and I enjoyed talking to her about the day when I was off of work. I came to be known, jokingly by the other teachers, as her son because she had a son about my age as well. We were pretty close and shared a lot of experiences and thoughts with one another. It did not take long for her to bring up weird happenings during our daily conversations.

One day, after arriving home around 7:30pm, I entered the house feeling weird again, it was heavy and uneasy. I asked her how her day was and she said it was fine for the most part except for chit chatter that she would hear outside her door near the stairs. She said it sounded like two people talking but she could not understand what they were saying; even if it were Thai, she would at least be able to remember some of the words and I can have it translated by some of the Thai staff we worked with. But it was nothing coherent. She said she did not feel scared, just curious to what it could be.

At this point, we did not ever cross the idea of the incidents being connected to Felicia's departure. But onward with the story, this incident and other incidents to come would gradually lead to an ever active manifestation of the male spirit. That would not occur until about a week later. But before his manifestation, he would be felt roaming around the house. For instance, I would come downstairs to the kitchen and while making some coffee, I would see him in my peripheral moving out of frame as if it were intentional; I do not really know if this is the case but to Sherry and me, it seemed so.

To add to this, Sherry would tell me that while she is downstairs in the kitchen making noodles, she would see the man manifest as a translucent shape walk from the base of the stairs and vanish once it got to the first landing. She did not tell me this until I told her about what I saw which was almost identical to her experience.

Then onward, I would talk to nothing, or something, about not bothering me and that I was aware of its existence. Felt somewhat crazy at this point but it made me feel sane. Throughout this point of my time in Thailand, I did not speak about it to the other teachers, but occasionally would put it out there, never following up on it. Not until I was talking to a colleague of mine. He has been teaching for the school for over a year already and knew many of the previous teachers from his first year teaching. And when I brought up my strange occurrence from the first part of my story, the one about the shoes moving, he told me that the person who had lived and slept in the very same room had experienced the same thing. I was shocked to hear that but felt at ease because I knew that it was not me who took the shoes out.

So I was able to confirm one part of my experience which was a relief. But some may wonder about the male presence, his history will be in the final part of my story.

Onward with the story... Sherry and I were the only ones in the house for about three weeks before we had new roommates move in. They were a couple I will call Jane and Ricky. Ricky taught while Jane stayed home. While we gained new roommates, I would later have confirmation from Sherry that she would leave for family reasons which was devastating news to me because I have grown to enjoy her company for the short time I have lived with her.

The new roommates I would not officially meet until about a week after their stay due to coming home tired, I would talk to Sherry and head straight to bed. But on one occasion, I pulled up to our house gates with my motor scooter. My engine still on and the lights peering into the dark living room of ours. And straight ahead is the doorway into the kitchen area and directly to its left are the stairways. And while looking ahead and opening the gates, I see a male figure that I thought was Ricky. The reason being is that I, still at this point, have not met him in person so I assumed it was him. The figure was about 5ft 11in tall or approximately 180cm. It wore a white T-shirt (very important) and blue jeans and stood there emotionless. As I parked and approached the door, the figure turned toward the stairs and turned off the kitchen light (seriously rude). I brushed it off and assumed he probably did not see me or something. So I enter the house more curious about the situation and walked into Sherry's room. I told her what happened and she said it was an awkward thing to do and we set the incident aside and talked about our day instead.

That very same weekend, Sherry was leaving back to South Africa. So during her last night in the house, I helped her pack and talked about how it was going to suck not having someone to talk to after work. She agreed and said she will miss the conversations we had daily. That night, I awoke out of my sleep feeling uneasy and turned on the lights right away. I had the feeling of being watched from my door. I lied in bed listening to music and eventually fell back asleep. Later that morning I woke up around 5:30am to help Sherry bring down her luggage. Once we cleared out her room we proceeded downstairs. We sat on our table outside and talked for the very last time when her pick-up service arrived. We exchanged good-byes, hugged and I went back inside and fell asleep.

During the slumber, I had a dream about Sherry and how she was taken away from me. I awoke feeling sad and actually shed a few tears. I showered and continued on with my Sherry-less day and officially met Jane while walking downstairs to make some coffee. We talked for a bit and I brought up about if anything weird has happened to her since moving in. And to my surprise, she had a few experiences that she could not explain. So I invited her to sit outside at the table Sherry and I sat at and we talked all afternoon. Ricky was at work, his work days were different from most teachers, his week started on Wednesday and ended on Sunday.

Jane proceeded to tell me an experience (at this point, I had not shared any experiences with her) about the kitchen. She said she was making coffee and saw a man walk upstairs. I was extremely shocked at this point and had goose bumps because three people had seen the exact same thing leading me to believe that it must be some type of residual haunting. She also began to share the feeling of being watched and would sometimes wake up abruptly from her sleep, on guard as if something sinister made itself known. While this occurred to her, Ricky had no experiences and remained a skeptic for the most part until his experiences which I will share later.

Since I was already talking about weird happenings, I brought up about Ricky and spoke about the day I saw him standing at the doorway to the kitchen. And to her surprise, she said he was not that type of person and it could not have been him. I was creeped out because I thought I was looking at flesh and blood. Also, the reason why it could not have been Ricky was that he did not own any white T-shirts or jeans, just shorts, colored T shirts and trousers. During this day, we spent it all conversing about experiences we had back home and Ricky chimed in too as a skeptic.

We all went to bed late that night feeling tired (we were drinking) and scared. Over the following week, strange occurrences would happen to Jane and finally Ricky. On the other hand, I only felt the heavy presence of the spirit that stared at me.




I have experience some paranormal activities and these are the two experience which still gives me the creeps!

This happened while on vacation in Ko Phi Phi Island, Thailand. I do not know if was just a dream or otherwise. In 2007 I went to Ko Phi Phi Island for a week vacation on my own. I have been to the island before and this is my first time staying at this hotel. I stayed on thethreerd floor of this hotel in a nice deluxe room with a balcony.

One night I was asleep and I was awoken by a loud banging on the door with someone screaming, Tsunami!Tsunami! I was still in shock, sitting on the bed when the voice stopped and then I saw hands coming from the corner near the bathroom with someone saying in a distress voice, Help me... Help me!...at the same instance I WOKE UP with the same position of the dream... Sitting on the bed... Shock and almost in tears! The whole dream was so real. I feel that there were souls who needed help.

The following day I asked the reception if this hotel was damage during the tsunami and if the water would have reached the third floor and they said it did! I decided to say prayers and have my lights on every night after until the day I left!

I must have been 12 at that time when my aunt and her family moved to Singapore. My cousin is the same age as me and looked forward to each school holidays when I visited them. The family lived in the huge colonial bungalow with many rooms and maid's quarters. Next door to their property there is also a large colonial bungalow. These two bungalow sits nicely together surrounded by lush greenery.

During one of my visits, as we were playing one afternoon, I cycled from my cousin's driveaway and made a huge circle to the neighbour's driveaway when I saw a lady watching me from the top floor bedroom window. I must have made few circles and as I passed by their driveway I waved at the lady.

After done with my cycling in circles, I told my cousin that I hope her neighbour won't be upset that I used her driveaway but that I did gave her my friendly wave so I hope she won't be upset. But my cousin was shocked because the next bungalow is empty, I refuse to believe her and I showed her exactly where the lady was standing. There was no lady anymore at the window.

The scary bit was when she told her dad about it and my uncle said no one lives there and do not play near there anymore.


One night during the first week of January, I'm not quite sure what day it was, I was just having a smoke on the balcony of my apartment which is located on the 32nd floor. My girlfriend was asleep and I was by myself. I was smoking and using my IPhone at the same time and I heard a strange noise which I would say I have never heard before. I'm not quite sure how I can describe the sound. It sort of sounded like a moan or a wailing, but I'm not fully certain it was one. I heard the sound twice to be more specific. When I heard it the first time, I just thought it was from one of the other rooms although this is quite unusual as I have been living in the same apartment for about a year or so, and never have I heard a noise such as this. And there was about 5 seconds interval and I heard the same noise only for it to last a tad longer this time around. As my room is on the 32nd floor, it is quite isolated from noises and such, with the exception of super loud ones I guess.

To give more detail regarding my surroundings at the time the event occurred, the TV was on although I was on the balcony with the door to balcony closed, so in noway can I attribute the cause to the TV.

The thing that creeped me out was not exactly the sound. Right at the moment when I heard this strange noise, I looked down on my phone and what I saw scared the shit out of me. The moment I checked my phone, it was exactly 12 midnight. I suddenly felt the hairs on the back of my neck stand up and immediately got inside and locked the door and went to lie down beside my girlfriend.

I will tell you about a few peculiar things that happened to me about a year ago. Me and my friend Maria decided to move in together as both of our earlier leases were just about to expire and we spend pretty much every waken hour together either way.

We went house hunting and finally found an apartment that we both really saw some potential for. It was rather cheap and absolutely massive three bedrooms, two bathrooms, a kitchen, living room and a big balcony. I had spent the last few months living in a tiny studio (without kitchen) and it was really a relief to find this place, especially considering that I had a kitten that grew bigger and bigger each day.

The building itself was pretty worn out, built in a depressive old Chinese style, with low, heavy roof and dirty grey (once white) walls and generally loads of concrete. Especially the elevators were very unpredictable and made me feel claustrophobic (the lights would go out, it would take you to random floors and once even got stuck between floors with us trapped in it), but the apartment itself was newly renovated and felt like it just needed a bit if light and care to become homey and welcoming. It would be our oasis in the middle of busy Bangkok.

The week we moved in was pretty rough on us, we had so much stuff and no time to move it all. Work had us stay late every night and forced us into moving little by little long after midnight. Because of this, the relief was even greater when we finally had cleaned and prepared the place perfectly. I took a deep breath and thought wow, finally all done at this very same second I heard a loud banging sound coming from my room. We ran in and saw my brand new clothing rack all bent and broken and clothes were covering the entire floor, as if someone in rage had bent it and tossed away all my clothes. The thing was pretty solid and brand new, Maria had the exact same model that we bought at the same time and this one never broke. But the most unsettling thing was that feeling of it not being just a normal fall, I was finally just finished cleaning and the clothes pretty much had exploded all over the rather big room. It just didn't feel natural.

After this we both stayed together in Maria's room, even though we had all this extra space. I wasn't scared or anything, but it just naturally turned out that way as we would always watch movies there before bed, it was the easiest room to cool down and we both wanted to sleep with the kitten, etc.

Although there was something in the atmosphere in the apartment that wasn't quite right. It felt impossible to keep the place bright, no matter how much sun you let in the windows or how many lamps were lit. The kitten seemed scared sometimes and other times acted like she was hiding or running away from something, she even ignored her litterbox once in a while. This was not a normal behaviour for her before nor after living there.

A few times we had visitors and this seemed to encourage a spike in odd happenings. Visitors would stay in 'my room' (in which I actually never spent a single night) and this really seemed to trigger something. However, there was this one event that was just standing out, it was impossible to ignore or brush off as nothing.

We were just about to sleep. In the big bed we were laying about 2cm apart with our backs facing each other. Stretched out between us was a thin blanket. Suddenly we clearly feel and hear something stomping up the bed! Starting from the bottom and walking angrily all the way up to our heads. The blanket got pushed down between us as the mattress itself was clearly sinking in from each step. There was no one else in the room, not even the kitten as we had closed the bedroom door not to disturb visiting parents. We were frightened (of course) but also amazed that something like that actually just had happened.

We ended up leaving the apartment after staying there for only about three months. Because of other reasons not related to our haunting, but I still look up at it sometimes, when I pass it by on my way home from work late at night. I wonder if anyone will ever feel welcomed in that room.

A somewhat 10 years ago you got in trouble at work and ended up needing to find another job. At the time he was living in another province than what he is originally from, so when facing a quick end to the stable income, he had no nearby family to turn to and ended up crashing with a friend for a while, whilst figuring out what to do next. This friend was living with a girlfriend quite far out on the country side of Udon Thani. Their house was a typical Thai, two story building with a big dining area / living room on the ground floor and a sleeping loft above. It was located at the end of a small dirt road with no other buildings or people nearby.

Upon first arriving to the house you noticed various children's toys (such as dolls, plastic cars etc.) spread out all around the house and property. He found this very strange as he was completely unaware of his friend having any children, so naturally he asked him about this right away. Oh, so you have a child? his friend laughed and said no, no, those are for the spirit

For those of you who never heard of a spirit From ancient times the spirit has been used in Thailand as a household divinity. It is common believes that keeping a spirit in your house brings good luck and fortune. All you need to do is buy one, and then keep it happy by offering it toys and sweet treats. For most people, to buy this would probably be to spend a small fortune. But it is very common in Thai culture to spend incredible amount of money on thing such as altars, amulets or tattoos of good fortune. Even if you don't really have the money (it will probably come back to you with all the luck it will bring sort if thinking).

The spirit is the trapped spirit from an unborn child. This child, having died so early or suddenly is unable to reincarnate. Therefore monks (or witch doctors) practicing black magic are able to trap the spirit and use it for their own benefit. This originates from the practice of necromancy. The spirit is created from a human fetus removed from the mother's womb before birth. In a horrifying ritual that includes roasting the feats dry at a cemetery, ceremonial chanting and sometimes even to soak it in oil extracted from the skin of a dead child or a person who died in violent circumstances or an unnatural death.

If you ask a Thai person they would probably tell you that the spirit was more likely made from the killing of the fetus (and sometimes even the mother), than from a stillborn. How anyone could live with this being a sources to your own happiness or luck is beyond me. I find it sickening to imagine keeping a spirit of an innocent child trapped rather than supporting them to move on.

Back to the story, You are religious and a very spiritual person but never really believed in these particular sort of legends or which crafts. He dismissed the whole thing as quite bizarre and frankly thought his friend was a bit off for keeping toys in the house for this reason.

The first evening he spent in the house they were all enjoying barbecue with more than a few beers to follow. When they finally went to bed You were sleeping on a mattress on the ground floor, while his friend and the girlfriend had their bedroom upstairs. After a few hours of sleep you suddenly woke up. He distinctly heard the sound of small, quick feet running up and down the stairs. You, being a big guy (body builder and Muay Thai trainer), wasn't easily scared of many things, but this really made him freeze in bed, listening as the small steps kept running quickly in the stairs and across the floor above. Naturally his thoughts went to the little altar with the spirit and he was really frightened. Eventually he still managed to convince himself that it was only some sort of animal making the sound and thus he was able to fall asleep again.

The following morning he mentioned the sounds to his friend, but the friend just shrugged it off, yes, we have the spirit. I already told you and it seemed that this didn't bother him in any way. He clearly had no problem with this, as he knew the spirit was there to protect and bring luck to the household. He had willingly, knowingly invited it. You didn't understand how something so terrifying could be shrugged off so easily, but being in full daylight and knowing that he had been quite drunk the night before, he decided not to let it bother him.

That same night he went to bed without having any drinks before, but yet again woke up to the sound of footsteps. The steps were too quick and light to be from an adult and I knew there was only him, his friend and the girlfriend in the house. Furthermore, houses in cities in Thailand are usually always connected and built very closely, enabling sounds to travel between homes. But this house was completely freestanding with no chance of the sound coming from a neighbor. You even went around the house looking for tree branches and alike that could make the sounds, but came up with nothing.

This continued every night and things seemingly started to escalate. You were terrified, but desperate situations calls for desperate measures and so he chooses to stay. He tried, for many nights to shut out the sound of a child's running, but could not ignore the toys that would be moved to different places in the morning. Sometimes he even heard the toy cars outside being rolled across the yard.

One night he clearly heard the sound of a child's laughter coming from the very room he was sleeping in. Terrified and unable to move, he stayed in bed all night waiting for the sun to rise. The sound of feets running and cheeky children's laughter kept on going all night. When the morning finally came He packed up his belongings, and left.

There are many weird traditions in different cultures, but for me this one isn't something that can be easily understood. I wonder if this really is the child's spirit or if something else is captured during the ritual. If it is a child, then I really wish that someday these poor spirits are freed. Even if they are cared about and prayed to, as if they're something divine, this surely can't be their place.


In 1999 my eldest son, then aged 11, and I went to Thailand for a 3 week holiday. After landing in Bangkok late in the evening we stayed at the hotel at the airport, catching the train from the airport railway station to Ayutthaya, the ancient capital of Thailand, early the next morning.

I had booked our hotel accommodation online - just a local 3 star Thai hotel in close proximity to the World Heritage site of the old city. Ayutthaya was brutally sacked in 1767 by the Burmese, the city destroyed and its citizens either marched off to slavery in Burma or slaughtered. We arrived early in the afternoon, checked in and left our bags in our room and went out to explore the ruins of the ancient city.

Due to jetlag catching up with us, we didn't last long and were back around 5 pm having an early dinner in the hotel restaurant, before retiring to our room. I was a bit concerned about security, especially our passports and money, so I not only locked the door, but put the chain latch across it, before putting everything into the room safe. As it was still early and still light outside I switched off all the lights and closed the window blinds. By 7 pm we were both dead to the world.

In the middle of the night I suddenly came to consciousness with the overwhelming feeling that there was someone in the room. I gradually gained enough courage to slowly open my eyes. Every single light was on in the room - overhead, side lamps, as well as the entry light. I thought someone had broken into the room, so waited and listened for sounds or movement. When I didn't hear anything I got up and checked the hallway and then the bathroom. Nothing. Not surprising as the chain latch was still in position and it would have been impossible for anyone to have entered the room without making a noise. I checked the safe and nothing had been tampered with. I glanced at the bedside alarm clock and noted that it was 3 am. Having seen the local Thai poles and wires I just assumed it was some weird glitch with the electricity, so I switched off all the lights and went back to sleep.

The next day my son and I went out for another exhausting day of visiting ruins and museums, and once again were felled early in the evening with jetlag. In the middle of the night my son woke me up, in a panic telling me that there was someone in the room. This time the room was completely dark. I reassured him that there was no one in the room and gently urged him to go back to sleep. I looked at the time - 3 a.m. Roughly the same time as the night before. I realised then that I hadn't been imagining anything the previous night. I didn't tell my son about my experience as I didn't want to frighten him.

The next day on returning from breakfast my son noted that unlike all the other hotel room doors which were decoratively carved teak, our room door was plain white pine. He was absolutely convinced the room was haunted. Thai people are extremely superstitious and have many different categories of phi (spirits). Nearly all Thai houses will have a spirit house outside the house - like a small dollhouse complete with miniature furniture and food offerings in order to accommodate household spirits and lure them away from the household.

Before I could stop him, he told the staff at the hotel front desk that there was a ghost in the room. The alarmed and frightened looks on the front desk staff faces indicated that they knew there was a story with the room. I guess they deliberately gave the room to the farangs, as the majority of guests were Thai.

While out and about that final day I picked up a protective shield Sothorn Buddha amulet from a roadside seller. I also did some spiritual protection for both me and my son on the third and final night, before telling whatever it was that it had to move on into the light.

Whether it was the amulet, the psychic protection, or acknowledging the presence, we finally had a quiet night without any disturbance. I've had quite a few paranormal experiences in my life, but have never experienced multiple lights turning on by themselves like that. It was pretty impressive.

I'm pretty sure many of you are familiar with the term sleep paralysis. I, unfortunately was a victim of it. Moreover, it happened to me on New Year's Day of 2015.

Me and my girlfriend were in Bangkok for a short New Year's countdown holiday. This trip was actually an impromptu one; having booked air tickets and accommodation on the last week of December 2014. Due to the Christmas and New Year holiday period, most hotels were already fully booked and we had to stay in three different hotels over the six days we were there.

This incident happened during our stay on the second hotel: a 4 star service apartment at Thong Lor area and adjacent to Ekkamai road where all the local hip clubs are. The hotel looks decent enough, not the sort of place you would expect to be haunted. Amenities around the vicinity of the hotel were pretty good; many good restaurants and supermarkets. Reviews were good as well, with minor complains on the quality of the room and it being a little worn down.

It was supposed to be a 2 night stay at this hotel until we switched again. We checked into the hotel on the 30th of Dec. 2014. The receptionist gave us the key to a room on the fifth floor. As I travel quite often and also being a 'be safe than sorry' kind of person, the first thing I always do before I enter a hotel room is to always knock on the door three times or ring the door bell (if there was one) as a polite gesture to 'notify the occupants' that I will be entering and staying. I vividly remembered, immediately after I opened the main door, the door to the bedroom opened itself! I'm pretty sure it wasn't because the chambermaid did not close the bedroom door properly after cleaning the room and the draft and pressure from the opening of the main door had caused the bedroom door to creep open, but because I heard the sound of the bedroom doorknob being turned. I could have swore also that I saw a shadow darted quickly into the bedroom instantly.

My girlfriend was standing behind me so she didn't see the 'shadow' but she did witness the bedroom door opening by itself. Both of us looked at each other and both of us had the same thought. We went down to the reception and after explaining the situation, with dismay and disbelief from the hotel staff of cause, politely requested a room change, but due to the peak holiday period the only available room left was at the corner on the ground floor and we are left to no avail but to accept it. Come to think about it, I suspect that that room might be a room most typical hotels leave vacant for 'regular occupants'.

The room seemed okay and after we settled our bags, we headed out for our activities for the day and came back quite late as we went to a nearby club to party. Nothing happen during the first night.

We woke up in the afternoon, showered, changed and went out. We ended our countdown at Asiatique and went back to our hotel around 1 am. Now apart from the first night which was okay, the first thing I noticed immediately after I entered the room was the warmth and stuffiness I felt. I adjusted the air con's temperature in the bedroom as well as the living room but the funny thing is, moments after that the room will be very warm and then gradually feels cold again and sporadically feels warm again. Thinking that it might be attributed to the fact that we have been out the whole day and the tiredness is starting to creep in, I shrugged it off as being weary.

So to cut the long story short, after we showered and were getting ready for bed, I started to hear faint tapping noise like fingernails tapping on wooden hollow planks or cheap plywood. The tapping noise sounded random and inconsistent, then a few short burst of taps* pause* etc. I cannot pinpoint the location of the tapping as firstly it was faint and distant and secondly, being in a room situated on the ground floor, the outside ambiance noise was drowning it out.

I tried not to think about it and I also did not wish to further freak my girlfriend out. But I paid close attention to it nonetheless. Within 20 minutes my girlfriend was fast asleep, but I, on the other hand cannot sleep at all.

I felt very uneasy as if there was something or someone watching us. Furthermore, the difference in temperature made me sweat and froze as the same time, it also felt nauseating just to be in the room. I felt heavy and 'weighted down'. The tapping noises were also beginning to feel or sound louder and this time I can pinpoint it being on or around the wall dividing the bedroom and the living room. I was beginning to feel really tired and sleepy but every time I closed my eyes, I would feel the uneasiness weighing heavily on me and my inner voice was telling me to stay awake.

At around 3 am, and I can honestly say that I do not know whether I was sleeping or if it was a dream, it felt as if I was sleeping and awake at the same time, it was a very surreal kind of feeling. In the dream, I awake to find the toilet light switched off (which was actually on with the door slightly ajar), the room was dark with faint light shining in through the window from the parking lot outside and I can make out the area in the room. I felt petrified and wanted to get out of the bed to check out what was wrong. This was when the 'thing' appeared. It appeared on the side the bed on my right, it was dark and shaped like a person. I could shout, I wanted to get up but it sat on me (it felt distinctly as if it was a person's butt sitting on my stomach, literally feeling the shape and softness of the buttocks and hardness of the hip bone kind of feeling). With my hands on the blanket, I tried to spring myself up from the bed using my elbows on the bed as support. The 'thing' grabbed both my wrists (I swear I literally felt fingers digging into both my wrist and its grip tightened) and pushed me down on to the bed. I panicked and uttered so loudly Buddhist chants that I woke up (or was I already awake) to find my girlfriend, eyes wide opened, stunned, paled face staring at me.

That 'thing' was nowhere in sight and I could move again. I did not tell her my experience immediately but instead got up, switched on all the lights in the bedroom and living room and starting cursing and swearing (I read somewhere or was it someone who told me, can't remember, that if you do that, 'they' will be scare off by the anger and the earthly presence) while pacing up and down the living room and searching through Agoda for hotel rooms.

I booked a new hotel and managed to pacify my girlfriend back to sleep, packed our bags and I stayed awake until 6 am in the morning. We checked out and left the place. The receptionist still asked me if everything was okay, I didn't even bother to explain, I just wanted to get out.

After we checked into the new place, I told my girlfriend what happened. Guess what? She also felt uneasy but did not want to alarm me as she thought it might be due to her weariness as well. Furthermore, she said while she was asleep, she can feel hand or hands caressing her body in a sexual way, she thought it was me being cheeky. After what she told me, the fear actually turned to anger.

Last week my mother underwent surgery at Bangkok's famous Hospital, after which the doctors recommended she stay in the hospital for a few days while recovering.

She was moved into Room "905" on the 9th Floor of the old building. In my daily visits to her at the hospital, I always got an uneasy feeling being in the room and usually couldn't stay there too long. At first I thought maybe it was because I don't generally like being in hospitals, but anyways my mother abruptly decided that she wanted to come back home a day earlier than she was supposed to.

At first I didn't make much of it, but once she got home she told me something strange. She said for the past few nights she had seen a women wearing a white gown and headscarf standing at the corner of the room calling out to her. The first night she saw her she thought she might be hallucinating from the medication but then when the same thing happened the 2nd night she was pretty sure something was not right in that room.

Our best guess is someone had passed away in that room and had not moved on as yet. We hope and pray that her soul can rest in peace. Would be interesting to hear if someone had a similar experience at Hospital or any other hospitals in Bangkok.

I personally do believe in the afterlife and believe that people who are lost before their time sometimes do not pass over right away. In this case I'm pretty sure both my mom and my dad who had been staying with her had witnessed this phenomenon, but managed to deal with it in a proper way. They both said a prayer in the room before they left and prayed that if there was in fact any spirit present there, it would be at peace and find its way to the next life.

My uncle died two years ago in 2010, while he was on a holiday in Thailand. It was horrible for the whole family. I was young when it happened but it remember it so well. When my mother and my wife found out they caught a plane to Thailand and went to deal with the paper work. I wasn't really the same after that. All the stress I went through took its toll and I became depressed but after a while the pain seemed to ease. I knew my uncle was in a better place. The pain never really left, I just found it easier to cope and I don't know how that happened but I felt lighter and happier.

When my mother and wife arrived back to Perth they organised the funeral and we decided to have his body cremated. My uncle's ashes were kept at my wife's house where he used to live. After a couple of months she started telling my mother that sometimes she heard weird noises, footsteps and doors opening and closing. My wife didn't feel harmed by this, she felt as if there was someone watching over her.

In April my family and I travelled over to Thailand to spread my uncle's ashes there, we believed that was what he would have wanted because Thailand was his favourite place in the world. After a couple of days there our hotel door bell rang by its self at all hours of the day and night and on a closer look we found no one there. Our televisions used to turn on and change channels by its self at that point we thought it was just bad connection.

Just before we were about to spread his ashes on the beach close to where he died we decided to have his ashes blessed by the Thai monks. Later that day we went down to the beach we to spread my uncle's ashes. It was around 8:00 pm. We walked out into the water together and poured the ashes in there. A close friend of the family was taking picture with her iphone. The next day she was showing us the pictures she had taken. They had a cloud of smoke or mist like substance surrounding us. The lady taking the photos was Thai and she told us it was his sprit going to heaven.

After this occurrence the door bell no longer rang, doors don't open and close, channels don't flip over. Is he finally at rest?

I was walking down Sukhumvit Road last night between Soi 23, and Soi 4 Nana. This is the red light entertainment area. I have been wandering up and down the street since ten pm after getting dumped by my girlfriend of 2 years. I just wanted to get drunk and talk to a pretty girl for a while. Now, it is 3:30 AM and the bars are closed. The after hours action then hits the streets, with street side carts and plastic tables set up for people to keep drinking until 6 AM. I am looking for a type of face. The facial type like my girlfriend had. She was from the Thai/Cambodian border region, and girls there have high cheekbones, full lips, and dark skin. They look like the bas reliefs of Khmer angels on Angkor Wat, knows as 'Apsaras'. To me, they are beauty incarnate. Graceful, feminine, exotic, and divine. Just like the girl who broke my heart. I need a substitute, and nothing I see can compare to her beauty.

Finally, after wandering for five hours, I see a flash of a smile from a street side bar. For a minute I think its her--my ex girlfriend. I ignore the other women asking me "Bpai Nai?" (where you go?), and I zero in on the smile. I approach her and I stop dead in my tracks. Everything is the same--the spacing of her eyes, the delicate curve of her cheeks, the outline of her lips, and most of all, her smile. The only difference is there is a slight brown tint to her hair.

I walk up and greet her in the dialect of the countryside known as Isaan, "Sabai dee baw?".

The girl just smiles, and beckons me to sit down next to her on the plastic chair on the side of the road. I stroke her cheek and it feels cool to the touch on an otherwise sweltering Thai night. I talk to her for five or ten minutes about where she is from, mixing English with Isaan, Thai, and a bit of Khmer. She is laughing at my jokes, and is astonished when I pull out a pic of my ex-GF and show her how much she resembles her. She asks me if I want her to be my new girlfriend too. She puts her hand in mine and rests her head on my shoulder. I stroke her hair, and sit back and absorb the night (things happen this fast in Bangkok). There are two women who run the street side bar, and they are staring at me. I look back at them and say "Arai na?" or 'what's up?"

They come up to me and ask if I want a drink. I say I'll have a Sprite with salt in it (a Thai hangover cure), and whatever my new companion wants. The two women look at each other, and then one of them asks..."What lady sir?"

I turn to my right and I look at my companion in the eyes. She smiles at me again and laughs. I turn back to the two women and point to the girl at my side.

"Her," I say.

The two women laugh, and roll their eyes slightly. Their face says 'Who is this crazy farang? (foreigner).

"You want one Sprite with salt, sir?" one of them asks.

I look back at my new girl as she slides her hand down my thigh. "Yeah, and something for her." I say.

"Who?" the woman asks.

I'm getting upset, but in Thailand you have to remain calm above all else. I speak slowly so she can understand, "The-lady-next-to-me."

She pauses, and then says, "Sir, there no lady."

I turn to my right, and I am looking at an empty chair. I feel a rush go through me, almost like someone is walking through my body.

I freaked out. "Where'd she go?" I ask.

"Who?"

"The lady."

"Sir, no lady. You sit alone."

I jump up and spin around. There are taxis, and street urchins trying to sell roses to single men and their paramours. The girl, however, is nowhere to be seen...

One of the women's face turns to fear. She starts talking to the other one rapidly. Too fast for me to understand. Something you should know about Thailand--this is THE most haunted place in the world. Everyone, and I mean EVERYONE knows about ghosts here. People go to witchdoctors instead of psychiatrists. Almost immediately, the women conclude that I saw a ghost. They don't think I'm crazy at all.

This is the second time I had a visitor like this in Thailand. The first time was a couple of years ago, and I submitted a story here about talking to a guy at a amulet sellers table, who also wasn't there. So, either I am becoming a schizophrenic, or I am now becoming sensitive to the dead in some way. On both occasions, it came after some emotional trauma. As I wandered the streets with my heart in knots, I must have been receptive to some kind of energy. I don't know. I can only say what I experienced. I'm still processing this and I'm a little freaked out. Just writing this down to document what happened to me.

Recently, I've been having trouble sleeping. Before it would usually be drug's fault.

What I first thought to be a special nightmare of it's kind, turned out to be a real-time event.

One day at 16:00, when I woke up, I saw a woman. An uncontrollable question popped out in my mind. Was she dead? And I hoped so. Because her mouth wide opened over mine was as close as it could get. Breathless, she was dead, or so I think, because I think she was just breathing deeply into my ears. She had a leather band covering her eyes, attached around her head. Fully stretched, she was hanging on her hands and feet. She wore a strange rubber-made suit that had metallic chains attached from her wrist and feet to the 4 opposite corners of my ceiling. And by her dark colored skin, she had been dead for quite a long time. I took a precious amount of time looking at her for three reasons. First, she probably knew me better than I knew her, so I had to meet her. Two, she was dead and yet appearing in my room and in my wake, and I wanted to clarify her presence. Finally, and worst, I was paralyzed and could move nothing else but my eyes. It wasn't fear, emotions, or anything that came from me that triggered my paralysis. The truth that I later found out was that some spirits have the ability of paralyzing living beings.

Knowing that there was nothing else I could do but move my eyes. I did all that I could do best: inspect. I looked around my entire room. The sun was showering into the room through the 4 windows, giving an orange-like atmosphere of well-being to my chamber. By the colour of the sun, I knew that I was awake at 16:00 just as I expected it to happen before falling asleep. A friend of mine was snoring next to me. All the objects that are in my room were in place at that moment. Even the air conditioner was roaring on and off like it always did. Everything in my bedroom was perfectly where it was meant to be, except for one person: her.

This is when I stare at my beautifully innocent white wall on my right asking myself what in the world I was going to do now with a dead 20 something year old girl hanging on top of me while I was being paralyzed. I closed my eyes, took a deep breath, and hoped to wake up normally somehow. When I opened my eyes, everything around me was the same, except for the girl. She had disappeared.

Today, I don't know what to feel about this experience. I remember her entire body and appearance perfectly. I was attracted by her the moment I saw her. I wouldn't dare touch her. But if she would touch me, I doubt that I would show much resistance. Besides, if she hadn't been wearing this "sex suit" on her, I probably would've felt more comfortable with losing control.

How can I judge this girl? How can I gain more control over this situation? Generally speaking, is this good or bad?

Until now, I always felt like it was bad to have something with the dead. But I've noticed that some people have been having positive experiences with ghosts.

In September 2005, I was studying at Derby University for a BA Degree in Tourism, as part of my dissertation I was looking into the effects of the tsunami and the socio-economic impact on the area of Krabi in Thailand (a popular tourist destination.)

I had a close relationship with a Thai family, who previously lived in the UK, and it was arranged for me to go and stay with them. Jon the father of the family was English, and Dum was the mother of the family; she was Thai. They had two children; a girl (lets call her Cassie, for the sake of this account) and a boy called Freddie (just for this account.) Cassie would have been around 5 at the time and Freddie was about two and a half.

On arrival to Thailand I was greeted at the air port by the whole family, and Cassie presented me with a small garland of flowers, which I thought was really sweet. I was absolutely exhausted from traveling and do not remember the journey to their home very well. I remember it was about 4pm in the afternoon when I arrived at their bungalow and I had to excuse myself to go to bed.

During the night I woke up (I do not know what time this was, but I was feeling very uneasy, almost like I was being watched.) The net curtains in the room were swaying frantically, and I remember a real feeling of sadness, usually this would stop me from sleeping, but I was so sleepy I just drifted back to sleep.

The next morning I woke up feeling much better after some rest and was able to get a proper catch up with my friends, who I had not seen for almost three years. Dum asked me how I had slept and I announced I had slept really well (not wanting to let her know how uneasy the feeling was in the room.) I thought nothing of this and got showered and ready to spend the day with Dum, whilst Jon stayed home and looked after the children.

In my room I had lots of sweets and presents for the children which were on my bed, I was planning to give them to them later in the day.

Around 3:30pm I arrived back at the bungalow with Dum, and Jon was sitting outside on the porch, he had a very worried expression on his face and asked to speak with myself and Dum alone.

He said that he had caught the children messing around in my room, (trying to eat the sweets etc) so he had locked the door, only later he noticed they were still hovering around the door trying to unlock it and talking to something in the room. Cassie informed him that someone was in there and she needed to go and check and see if they were ok. (Jon thinking this was just a ploy to get at the sweets told them to go and play somewhere else and behave).

About an hour before we came home he said he was sitting on the porch when he heard in a low voice say "Cassie come here," this came from the room where I was staying. Cassie had come outside and asked her dad who had called her, which had alarmed Jon as he had also heard it.

Jon was not the kind of man to be shaken up by things like this, however there was no way anyone could have been behind the bungalow at the time or gotten into the room without Jon seeing, as the passage way behind is blocked up and the room was locked.

The other strange thing about it was that the voice was speaking in English and the bungalow where they were renting was in a residential area predominantly Thai.

He said the voice he had heard radiated through the house, the children thought it came from my bedroom, but when we went in and spoke, even loudly noting could be heard from the front porch.

Dum being a Buddhist and also a believer in ghosts called to arrange for local monks to come and bless the house, believing that something was very wrong indeed. We all packed our bags and went to stay in a near by hotel for the night. Jon and Dum contacted the people who they were renting the bungalow off that evening to relay events only to find out that it had previously been owned by and English family with two daughters, one of which had passed away in the Tsunami and the parents had returned to England without managing to find the body.

Dum and Jon also admitted to me that both Cassie and Freddie would not settle in that room, which is why they were sleeping in the small room together instead of separate rooms.

The next day the monks came to bless the house, and left a string of orange rope around for protection and also brought a 'Spirit house' which is what many Buddhists have in their homes to look after the spirits.

I did not actually stay in the bungalow again after that night, as I felt very uneasy; I chose to stay in hotels as they were very reasonably priced. Dum and Jon have since moved back to the UK and the children are much older. We never spoke about what happened again.


My Thai partner and I have a house in the close-in suburbs of Bangkok, recently built. The land was vacant, as far as we know no other structure was there previously. His family has owned the land for many years. We split our time between living in the US and Thailand. I was at the house in December and January Back from a long time overseas. One morning as I lay in bed, I had the feeling someone was sitting next to me, sitting on the headboard of the bed, which is a low, wide headboard about six inches wide. I looked up, and there sat a 10-12 year old Thai school boy, shortly cropped hair, slight build, in his uniform; white short-sleeve button up shirt, red neckerchief, blue shorts and he was smiling and outstretching his hand offering me a glass of water, then vanished. It was so unexpected I sat up and gave a startled yell, and my partner came running in from downstairs to find out what was happening. It wasn't necessarily scary, but quite unsettling.

The next morning, as I lay in bed, the same boy walked across the bed headboard from right to left and as he passed me, bent down and playfully patted or tapped me on top of my head.

That same evening, late at night I was downstairs, changing the laundry when a voice very clearly called out "hello?" My partner was asleep in bed two stories above me and the voice sounded like a boy or a woman. I tried to convince myself I had not heard it, but it was extremely clear as though it was no more than a few feet away from me.

Soon after, the boy appeared to me in a dream and told me his name was Den or Tan, something like that.

My partner's family lives in the next house and his brother confided that he too had some experiences meeting Den or Tan, mostly disembodied voices.

My partner's family had a boy die many years ago, but as a baby, not a 10-12 years old boy. None of this was particularly frightening, but just very unsettling. His face is so very clear to me; I can recall every detail of how he looked.

Summing up all of this, to me it felt as though he was curious about me, not threatening.

hile I was at the parking lot behind my office building I was getting my car to go to lunch with some colleagues. As I was about to enter the car I heard someone calling my name out loud. It was a familiar voice, but I was the only one in that area at the time. I looked up and saw no one there which was rather strange because I could swear I heard that voice just merely a few seconds ago and it couldn't have been more than two meters away from me, but there was no one there. It wasn't extraordinary the fact that no one was there, because normally only a few cars park there every day and all of them were still in the office except for me.

I decided to let it go and just not pay any attention to it, but then as I was shutting the door and starting the engine I heard the same voice calling me again. This time it was right next to my door and I didn't see anyone. It was impossible for me not to have caught that person in time since the voice came from just outside the door. Nobody could have run that fast and there wasn't a lot of space to hide any ways. I decided to get out of my car and looked around. I knew who the voice belonged to, but it was impossible for him to have been there. Even though we work for the same company, but he is posted in another location quite far from here. Also if he was in the building he wouldn't have had the access to that particular parking lot anyways.

I am used to strange spooking things happening to me. It happens randomly so I never know what to expect. So I got back to the car again just to realize that 5 minutes has passed and still I have yet to leave for lunch with my colleagues. I started the car and as I closed the door I heard the voice calling me again. This time louder and I knew something wasn't right.

I went to lunch and didn't tell anyone about this besides if I was to tell them they wouldn't have believed me anyway. So I went back to work and because it was a Friday I totally forgot about the situation completely until Monday afternoon when I met the HR manager. Since I am close with her we talked for a while. I asked her about a colleague which I haven't seen for a while and she informed me that he has died a few weeks ago when I was away for my vacation. I never knew anything about his passing away. I was mostly shocked and didn't say anything to her until the next day. It was the voice of this dead colleague that was calling me the other day.

I don't get scared by these things anymore, because it keeps on reoccurring in my life. But the sad part about my deceased colleague is that he was just recently married and died from a car accident only 10 days after marriage. He was a good kid and worked very hard and I guess he called out my name, because he owed me money and never gave it back to me. It wasn't a big deal and I never thought much about it, but I guess it was important to him. He has tried to give it back to me, but I was never free to wait for it. I hope he rest in peace.

This happened a while ago when my family and me were in our car and we were on our way to our family's friend's house. They lived outside the city and there weren't many houses about anymore.

It was pretty dark outside, but also quite warm really.

On our way there we saw a girl about my age walking along the road in the middle of the night by herself; my parents were pretty worried that something might have happened to her. So they were thinking they might as well ask if she wanted a lift to wherever she was heading to, since we had one seat left which was right next to me. So my dad stopped the car to where she was at, and my parents offered to give her a lift. I thought she was going to say no, since many parents do tell their children never to take lifts from strangers. But to my surprise she said yes and hopped in right next to me.

Now there was something very weird and strange about her. She had a long brown hair tied back very neatly and she was wearing a clothing which looked could posh but also looked from the lates 1900's. Her body looked terribly pale and she had scratches on her and not to be very rude but she even stank quite very badly.

I was telling myself not to stare at her because I knew how rude that would've been, But somehow I just couldn't stop... There was just something really strange about the girl sitting next to me that really gave me goose bumps and made my hair behind my back raise.

While I was trying to move around properly around my seat, my arm accidentally brushed against hers. What I experienced from that was that she was terribly freezing, it was like touching ice.

She didn't even seem to notice me at all, staring at her, since she was just staring straight ahead.

My parents tried asking her questions like what she was doing out in the middle of the night all by herself... But the girl didn't really seem answered. She just kept staring straight ahead. So my parents just gave up asking.

My sister was sitting at the back of the car right next to me on my left. She was trying to tell me something but I couldn't really tell what because she kept pointing and making faces like she was really scared of the girl too.

Then when we parked right outside the girl's house, my parents made me get out of the car to open the door for her. So I did what I was told. When I got out of the car I looked around to find nothing around but a really old house that seemed to be from the lates 1900's. When the girl got out of the car, she walked right up to her the house without knocking the door or even opening the door... She went right through...

That's when I started too freak out and screamed and got into the car really quickly telling my parents to drive off fast to our family's friend house.

During our way there, my parents asked me what on earth was wrong with me... Because it looked like I just saw a ghost. I told them I actually did and that it was that girl we just picked up. But they told me I was probably making it up. To my surprise someone in the family DID actually believe me,

My sister. She told me that's what she was trying to tell me all along...

What did you think I saw?

Do you think I was just probably just going nuts or what?

I am really confused about this experience.

My name is Michael, I'm 27 years old. The encounter I am going to write about happened two days ago in Pattaya Thailand. Some of you may have heard of it, if not it is the entertainment capital of Thailand.

My girlfriend was sleeping in my room and like every other day; I left to get some food. When I came back she quickly started telling me that someone had been in our room and had sexual intercourse with her. I had only been gone 20 minutes or so. I said to her, come on it was just a dream, but she insisted it wasn't then she started to describe to me that she had been in (sleep paralysis) but not in her own words. A young man entered the room through the front door and when I say through I mean through. She said he stood beside here and stared at her. After that he got into the shower at which point she asked him what he was doing in my room. He told her that it was his room and he came there everyday. When he had finished showering, he came right next to her. She could hear him breathing in her ear, she still couldn't move at all. She said it was at this point he got on top of her took her pants off and begin to have sex with her

She said she touched his leg and he was extremely cold, and that the intercourse felt very slow. She could not move to defend herself or stop him in anyway, when he finished he quickly jumped out the window (of the third floor) and said he will be back.

That night she seemed very disturbed by this and insisted that she had never had an experience like this before and it was real. I was a little freaked out but didn't worry too much. That night we went to bed. To my horror I was woken up in the morning by her moving around. She was lying beside me asleep on her back with her legs spread. I tried to close her legs but it felt like there was something or someone pulling them apart (it was impossible to close them). I tried to wake her up, it took at least five seconds maybe more, immediately when she woke up she started kicking and screaming she was very disturbed. She told me it was the same man again from the night before.

That is what really freaked me out, (she knew it was the same person cause he had one of his arms fully tattooed) She is normally the most peaceful sleeper in the world and is not the type of girl that would make this up. From what I saw with my own eyes was definitely chilling for me.

I moved to another room immediately but in the same block of flats.

Do you think she will be safe in my new room or we should move elsewhere?

I briefly informed the receptionist why I wanted to move rooms hoping that she wouldn't think I was crazy. To my surprise she told me she had heard very similar stories but never at there hotel.

This true encounter once again happened to me while I was living in Bangkok, Thailand. 
I was in the 5th grade at the time. I had a sleepover with two of my friends Mary and Tasha. Now mind you, I was always into hearing ghost stories and what not, but I never did those Ouija boards or seances or anything... Now my friend Mary, was heavy into the paranormal, her house is haunted, and being that strange things always happen in her household was regular to her... Now Tasha, was one of my other friends, was the total opposite of Mary. She just liked staying up talking about school, and didn't like the talk of the paranormal.

So it was around 2am when we all became bored and Mary suggested we play a hypnosis game. So here we are, all three of us sitting on my bed looking at each other. I told them I didn't want to really take part in it but just wanted to watch, so Tasha said she will be the one that was to be put to sleep while Mary was at the coach. Tasha lay straight on my bed while Mary sat Indian style with Tasha's head lying on her legs with a pillow underneath it.

Mary takes her fingers and places them on Tasha's temples and starting telling her she is getting sleepy. At first Tasha gusted out laughing and so did I because Mary was getting serious and we just weren't buying it.

After 20 minutes of sudden outbursts of laughter, Tasha started feeling pretty sleepy. Mary started counting from 50 and by the time she got to 0, Tasha was pretty sleepy. But we were talking to her as she was sleeping. We asked her what she saw, she said she saw green grass extremely tall like she was on a farm, then she said oh no, a storm is coming. Now mind you Tasha's eyes are closed of course but they are moving as if she is either dreaming or really there.

We then asked what was wrong because we can see her eyes moving rapidly, she said dark clouds were coming like it was going to storm. Then she started shaking. Mary said "what's wrong- what do you see?" Tasha said "Someone is chasing me and every time I turn back it gets closer!" So I'm like dead silent just looking and Mary tells her not to look back and run to a church. "There should be a church near by and a priest waiting for you".

Tasha said she saw the church and she was running as fast as she can, by the time she said she got in the church she said the priest closed the doors. By this time she started crying and kept saying omg omg omg omg omg omg omg!

Mary and I are looking at each other and we both said "What's wrong? What do you see?" Tasha then said the priest's eyes were turning red and blood was coming out of his eyes... I didn't like how this was turning because I knew for a fact Tasha was not faking the whole thing because I started tickling her feet because she was extremely ticklish so I can see if she was bullshiting us... But no reaction she was still trembling and crying. That's when I couldn't take it anymore, so I shook her and told her it's a dream get out of it!

Everything was extremely still for 3 minutes. Tasha was still laying there with her eyes closed but this time she was just silent eyes closed with no movement. Mary at this time was still in Indian style position with Tasha's head on her lap. She was calling her name "Tasha...Tasha? Tasha is everything ok?" Tasha said "Who is Tasha? This isn't Tasha..." she said in a low monotone voice.

Mary and I looked at each other and I started shaking my head to stop, but Mary said who are you? Tasha (or whoever was in Tasha) said "Who do you want me to be? I am what you cannot see, unless you want to see me."

By then I couldn't take it anymore. I slapped Tasha in her face to wake her up, she shot straight up started screaming at the top of her lungs, ran out my room, down the stairs and out my apt. door. We had to run after her because by then it was a little after 2:30am and my parents were asleep and so was the whole building.

She didn't want to go back into my house, but after we calmed her down she came back in the apt with us, I kept on asking her what happened? Why did she run out like that? She said she felt as if something put a hand over her mouth so she couldn't say anything, but she could feel her mouth moving but she wasn't the one who was speaking. After all this I was like ok well let's all go to sleep because I've had enough.

A week went by and I went up to Tasha to ask if she was fine and she said yes why wouldn't she be? So when I asked her if she remembered what happened that night she gave me a still look and said she doesn't remember anything. Tasha never spent the night at my house ever again. I'm still friends with Tasha and Mary to this day, but Mary and I still talk about the encounter that happened but Tasha on the other hand doesn't recall anything.

I just want to let everyone know that if you have small kids please don't let them watch any kind of scary movie that they can imitate like for instance "The Craft". Some young kids actually try to rein act those things and they sometimes get the surprise of their life. And back then by me being so young I felt it was harmless but I've had my days back then and happy to say it was back then. That was the last time I ever participated in hypnosis, or any type of thing that did or could deal with spirits.

This is my first story share of my experiences and definitely not my last, I can start off first that my mother is from Thailand and my father is from Harlem, NYC. So my mom always told me her beliefs in the spirit world. My dad on the other hand always told me, that spirits can't hurt you physically.

I moved to Thailand with my family in 1994. We were transferred there for six years and since my mother was from there , my dad figured it would be nice to know that side of the family. I was in the 4th grade, in a new country and trying to adjust to our new home. My room was enormous and I had my own bathroom. My room was at the end of the hall, my younger brother's room was in the middle of the hall and my parents were on the other end. I believe this was a month after we moved in. I was taking a bath. I had carpet on my bathroom floor by the way. So when I was finally done, I put one foot out and BOOM! Something pushed me out the tub and I fell and caught myself on the counter. Now mind you, I had carpet on the floor so I know I didn't slip out the tub. I felt some type of force push me out! I ran naked to my parents room and told her what happened. That same night she called my grandmother (her mom) and my grandmother said we should have had the house blessed.

So that very weekend, it was a lot of monks that came if I can remember it was 8 or more. They came to bless the house. We had to pray and I was told to wear these 3 black and gold Buddha bracelets for 3 months. I still have them to this day. Afterwards everything seemed fine but little things every now and then would happen. For instance we had a housekeeper, she had her room beside the kitchen but she always ended up in my room sleeping on the floor. She would tell my mom she would hear knockings on her walls, movement in her room when she was the only one in there. Now from what I was told Thailand has numerous names, The Land of the Smiles, The Land of the Dead or The Land of Spirits. Everyone in my building had a housekeeper, so what they did would get together and talk about different occurrences in my building and the other buildings that were housed with American families. Each building had what its called a spirit house and my mom would go downstairs every weekend and pay her respects.

Another incident happened when my dad was out of the country so my brother and I would sleep in my moms room with her. My mom was on her side, my brother was in the middle and I was on my dads side. I was awakened by some sort of talking going on in the late middle of the night, when I peeked my eyes open, they're sitting at the foot of the bed on my side, was 2 little boys ghostly figures. I wasn't too scared because I seen they were little boys, but just in a white light appearance. They were sitting at the foot of the bed laughing and pointing at me saying " Your a bad girl!" , giggling and pointing at me. I shut my eyes so hard and I covered my ears so I couldn't hear them. I told my mom the next day and she laughed at me, not because she didn't believe me but she said those little boys were right, I was being a bad girl and I was.

But my last incident I will share for the moment happened in another building, I was with my younger brother who was seven years old at the time and I was nine. We were walking with our housekeeper (a new one because our first one left because she was too scared) on the top floor where the pool was at. My brother and I were walking by the pool, the sides weren't wet at all because no one was in the pool. All of a sudden when I turned my back my housekeeper was screaming for me, I ran up and I seen her trying to pull my brother out the pool. He was a small skinny boy and she was struggling to pull him out ,so I grabbed his other arm and it took us five minutes to get him out the pool! He said something pulled him in , he held onto the drain, and was yelling for us. Our housekeeper was explaining to my mother that something was still pulling him into the water. I vouched for her because it took us five minutes to yank him out! He was such a small boy and for two people pulling him out was unbelievable. A couple of weeks went by and when my mom came home, she pulled me aside and explained to me what was pulling my brother down.

She had talked to a couple of the people in the building where we were at, and apparently a young boy drowned there years ago. No one ever swims in that pool by themselves because it is said that the boy tries to pull you down with him. And that day it really caught us off guard ,even still my brother tells what happened every now and then. I'm 23 and he is 20 but he said he will never forget that day and how he almost lost his life because the boys spirit was pulling him down. And I to this day will never forget when I was pushed while I was coming out my bathtub. Weird Weird Weird & scary. I'm glad I'm back in the states!

Not saying it doesn't happen here, but I'm not in Thailand nor in our old apartment building.



